content/packages/guides/configuring-dotnet-cli-for-use-with-github-packages.md, before:

---
title: Configuring `dotnet` CLI for use with GitHub Packages
intro: 'You can configure the `dotnet` command-line interface (CLI) to publish NuGet packages to {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %} and to use packages stored on {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %} as dependencies in a .NET project.'
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.packages %}'
redirect_from:
  - /articles/configuring-nuget-for-use-with-github-package-registry
  - /github/managing-packages-with-github-package-registry/configuring-nuget-for-use-with-github-package-registry
  - /github/managing-packages-with-github-packages/configuring-nuget-for-use-with-github-packages
  - /github/managing-packages-with-github-packages/configuring-dotnet-cli-for-use-with-github-packages
  - /packages/using-github-packages-with-your-projects-ecosystem/configuring-dotnet-cli-for-use-with-github-packages
versions:
  free-pro-team: '*'
  enterprise-server: '>=2.22'
---

{% data reusables.package_registry.packages-ghes-release-stage %}

{% data reusables.package_registry.admins-can-configure-package-types %}

### Authenticating to {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %}

{% data reusables.package_registry.authenticate-packages %}

#### Authenticating with a personal access token

{% data reusables.package_registry.required-scopes %}

To authenticate to {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %} with the `dotnet` command-line interface (CLI), create a *nuget.config* file in your project directory specifying {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %} as a source under `packageSources` for the `dotnet` CLI client.

You must replace:
- `USERNAME` with the name of your user account on {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}.
- `TOKEN` with your personal access token.
- `OWNER` with the name of the user or organization account that owns the repository containing your project.{% if enterpriseServerVersions contains currentVersion %}
- `HOSTNAME` with the host name for your {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_server %} instance.

If your instance has subdomain isolation enabled:
{% endif %}

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
    <packageSources>
        <clear />
        <add key="github" value="https://{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" %}nuget.pkg.github.com{% else %}nuget.HOSTNAME{% endif %}/OWNER/index.json" />
    </packageSources>
    <packageSourceCredentials>
        <github>
            <add key="Username" value="USERNAME" />
            <add key="ClearTextPassword" value="TOKEN" />
        </github>
    </packageSourceCredentials>
</configuration>
```

{% if enterpriseServerVersions contains currentVersion %}
If your instance has subdomain isolation disabled:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
    <packageSources>
        <clear />
        <add key="github" value="https://HOSTNAME/_registry/nuget/OWNER/index.json" />
    </packageSources>
    <packageSourceCredentials>
        <github>
            <add key="Username" value="USERNAME" />
            <add key="ClearTextPassword" value="TOKEN" />
        </github>
    </packageSourceCredentials>
</configuration>
```
{% endif %}

#### Authenticating with the `GITHUB_TOKEN`

{% data reusables.package_registry.package-registry-with-github-tokens %}

### Publishing a package

You can publish a package to {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %} by authenticating with a *nuget.config* file{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" or currentVersion ver_gt "enterprise-server@2.22" %}, or by using the `--api-key` command line option with your {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} personal access token (PAT){% endif %}.

{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" or currentVersion ver_gt "enterprise-server@2.22" %}
#### Publishing a package using a GitHub PAT as your API key

If you don't already have a PAT to use for your {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} account, see "[Creating a personal access token](/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token)."

1. Create a new project.
  ```shell
  dotnet new console --name OctocatApp
  ```
2. Package the project.
  ```shell
  dotnet pack --configuration Release
  ```

3. Publish the package using your PAT as the API key.
  ```shell
  dotnet nuget push "bin/Release/OctocatApp.1.0.0.nupkg"  --api-key <em>YOUR_GITHUB_PAT</em> --source "github"
  ```

{% data reusables.package_registry.viewing-packages %}

{% endif %}

#### Publishing a package using a *nuget.config* file

When publishing, you need to use the same value for `OWNER` in your *csproj* file that you use in your *nuget.config* authentication file. Specify or increment the version number in your *.csproj* file, then use the `dotnet pack` command to create a *.nuspec* file for that version. For more information on creating your package, see "[Create and publish a package](https://docs.microsoft.com/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-the-dotnet-cli)" in the Microsoft documentation.

{% data reusables.package_registry.authenticate-step %}
2. Create a new project.
  ```shell
  dotnet new console --name OctocatApp
  ```
3. Add your project's specific information to your project's file, which ends in *.csproj*.  You must replace:
    - `OWNER` with the name of the user or organization account that owns the repository containing your project.
    - `REPOSITORY` with the name of the repository containing the package you want to publish.                      
    - `1.0.0` with the version number of the package.{% if enterpriseServerVersions contains currentVersion %}
    - `HOSTNAME` with the host name for your {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_server %} instance.{% endif %}
  ``` xml
  <Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

    <PropertyGroup>
      <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
      <TargetFramework>netcoreapp3.0</TargetFramework>
      <PackageId>OctocatApp</PackageId>
      <Version>1.0.0</Version>
      <Authors>Octocat</Authors>
      <Company>GitHub</Company>
      <PackageDescription>This package adds an Octocat!</PackageDescription>
      <RepositoryUrl>https://{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" %}github.com{% else %}HOSTNAME{% endif %}/OWNER/REPOSITORY</RepositoryUrl>
    </PropertyGroup>

  </Project>
  ```
4. Package the project.
  ```shell
  dotnet pack --configuration Release
  ```

5. Publish the package using the `key` you specified in the *nuget.config* file.
  ```shell
  dotnet nuget push "bin/Release/OctocatApp.1.0.0.nupkg" --source "github"
  ```

{% data reusables.package_registry.viewing-packages %}

### Publishing multiple packages to the same repository

To publish multiple packages to the same repository, you can include the same {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} repository URL in the `RepositoryURL` fields in all *.csproj* project files. {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} matches the repository based on that field.

For example, the *OctodogApp* and *OctocatApp* projects will publish to the same repository:

``` xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
    <TargetFramework>netcoreapp3.0</TargetFramework>
    <PackageId>OctodogApp</PackageId>
    <Version>1.0.0</Version>
    <Authors>Octodog</Authors>
    <Company>GitHub</Company>
    <PackageDescription>This package adds an Octodog!</PackageDescription>
    <RepositoryUrl>https://{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" %}github.com{% else %}HOSTNAME{% endif %}/octo-org/octo-cats-and-dogs</RepositoryUrl>
  </PropertyGroup>

</Project>
```

``` xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
    <TargetFramework>netcoreapp3.0</TargetFramework>
    <PackageId>OctocatApp</PackageId>
    <Version>1.0.0</Version>
    <Authors>Octocat</Authors>
    <Company>GitHub</Company>
    <PackageDescription>This package adds an Octocat!</PackageDescription>
    <RepositoryUrl>https://{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" %}github.com{% else %}HOSTNAME{% endif %}/octo-org/octo-cats-and-dogs</RepositoryUrl>
  </PropertyGroup>

</Project>
```

### Installing a package

Using packages from {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} in your project is similar to using packages from *nuget.org*. Add your package dependencies to your *.csproj* file, specifying the package name and version. For more information on using a *.csproj* file in your project, see "[Working with NuGet packages](https://docs.microsoft.com/nuget/consume-packages/overview-and-workflow)" in the Microsoft documentation.

{% data reusables.package_registry.authenticate-step %}

2. To use a package, add `ItemGroup` and configure the `PackageReference` field in the *.csproj* project file, replacing the `OctokittenApp` package with your package dependency and `1.0.0` with the version you want to use:
  ``` xml
  <Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

    <PropertyGroup>
      <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
      <TargetFramework>netcoreapp3.0</TargetFramework>
      <PackageId>OctocatApp</PackageId>
      <Version>1.0.0</Version>
      <Authors>Octocat</Authors>
      <Company>GitHub</Company>
      <PackageDescription>This package adds an Octocat!</PackageDescription>
      <RepositoryUrl>https://{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" %}github.com{% else %}HOSTNAME{% endif %}/OWNER/REPOSITORY</RepositoryUrl>
    </PropertyGroup>

    <ItemGroup>
      <PackageReference Include="OctokittenApp" Version="12.0.2" />
    </ItemGroup>

  </Project>
  ```

3. Install the packages with the `restore` command.
  ```shell
  dotnet restore
  ```

### Further reading

- "{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" or currentVersion ver_gt "enterprise-server@3.0" %}[Deleting and restoring a package](/packages/learn-github-packages/deleting-and-restoring-a-package){% elsif currentVersion ver_lt "enterprise-server@3.0" %}[Deleting a package](/packages/learn-github-packages/deleting-a-package){% endif %}."

Commit message:

adding dotnet command to auth to github packages
The article doesn't otherwise mention how to authenticate to GitHub Packages in an Action - it just links to a non-helpful GITHUB_TOKEN page. The dotnet nuget add source allows for authenticating to GitHub packages without having to source control a GitHub token.

content/packages/guides/configuring-dotnet-cli-for-use-with-github-packages.md, after:

---
title: Configuring `dotnet` CLI for use with GitHub Packages
intro: 'You can configure the `dotnet` command-line interface (CLI) to publish NuGet packages to {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %} and to use packages stored on {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %} as dependencies in a .NET project.'
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.packages %}'
redirect_from:
  - /articles/configuring-nuget-for-use-with-github-package-registry
  - /github/managing-packages-with-github-package-registry/configuring-nuget-for-use-with-github-package-registry
  - /github/managing-packages-with-github-packages/configuring-nuget-for-use-with-github-packages
  - /github/managing-packages-with-github-packages/configuring-dotnet-cli-for-use-with-github-packages
  - /packages/using-github-packages-with-your-projects-ecosystem/configuring-dotnet-cli-for-use-with-github-packages
versions:
  free-pro-team: '*'
  enterprise-server: '>=2.22'
---

{% data reusables.package_registry.packages-ghes-release-stage %}

{% data reusables.package_registry.admins-can-configure-package-types %}

### Authenticating to {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %}

{% data reusables.package_registry.authenticate-packages %}

#### Authenticating with a personal access token

{% data reusables.package_registry.required-scopes %}

To authenticate to {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %} with the `dotnet` command-line interface (CLI), create a *nuget.config* file in your project directory specifying {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %} as a source under `packageSources` for the `dotnet` CLI client.

You must replace:
- `USERNAME` with the name of your user account on {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}.
- `TOKEN` with your personal access token.
- `OWNER` with the name of the user or organization account that owns the repository containing your project.{% if enterpriseServerVersions contains currentVersion %}
- `HOSTNAME` with the host name for your {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_server %} instance.

If your instance has subdomain isolation enabled:
{% endif %}

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
    <packageSources>
        <clear />
        <add key="github" value="https://{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" %}nuget.pkg.github.com{% else %}nuget.HOSTNAME{% endif %}/OWNER/index.json" />
    </packageSources>
    <packageSourceCredentials>
        <github>
            <add key="Username" value="USERNAME" />
            <add key="ClearTextPassword" value="TOKEN" />
        </github>
    </packageSourceCredentials>
</configuration>
```

{% if enterpriseServerVersions contains currentVersion %}
If your instance has subdomain isolation disabled:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<configuration>
    <packageSources>
        <clear />
        <add key="github" value="https://HOSTNAME/_registry/nuget/OWNER/index.json" />
    </packageSources>
    <packageSourceCredentials>
        <github>
            <add key="Username" value="USERNAME" />
            <add key="ClearTextPassword" value="TOKEN" />
        </github>
    </packageSourceCredentials>
</configuration>
```
{% endif %}

#### Authenticating with the `GITHUB_TOKEN`

{% data reusables.package_registry.package-registry-with-github-tokens %}

If running in a GitHub Action, run the following command to authenticate to GitHub Packages without storing a token in a nuget.config file in the repository:

```
dotnet nuget add source --username USERNAME --password ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }} --store-password-in-clear-text --name github https://nuget.pkg.github.com/USERNAME/index.json
```

### Publishing a package

You can publish a package to {% data variables.product.prodname_registry %} by authenticating with a *nuget.config* file{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" or currentVersion ver_gt "enterprise-server@2.22" %}, or by using the `--api-key` command line option with your {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} personal access token (PAT){% endif %}.

{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" or currentVersion ver_gt "enterprise-server@2.22" %}
#### Publishing a package using a GitHub PAT as your API key

If you don't already have a PAT to use for your {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} account, see "[Creating a personal access token](/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token)."

1. Create a new project.
  ```shell
  dotnet new console --name OctocatApp
  ```
2. Package the project.
  ```shell
  dotnet pack --configuration Release
  ```

3. Publish the package using your PAT as the API key.
  ```shell
  dotnet nuget push "bin/Release/OctocatApp.1.0.0.nupkg"  --api-key <em>YOUR_GITHUB_PAT</em> --source "github"
  ```

{% data reusables.package_registry.viewing-packages %}

{% endif %}

#### Publishing a package using a *nuget.config* file

When publishing, you need to use the same value for `OWNER` in your *csproj* file that you use in your *nuget.config* authentication file. Specify or increment the version number in your *.csproj* file, then use the `dotnet pack` command to create a *.nuspec* file for that version. For more information on creating your package, see "[Create and publish a package](https://docs.microsoft.com/nuget/quickstart/create-and-publish-a-package-using-the-dotnet-cli)" in the Microsoft documentation.

{% data reusables.package_registry.authenticate-step %}
2. Create a new project.
  ```shell
  dotnet new console --name OctocatApp
  ```
3. Add your project's specific information to your project's file, which ends in *.csproj*.  You must replace:
    - `OWNER` with the name of the user or organization account that owns the repository containing your project.
    - `REPOSITORY` with the name of the repository containing the package you want to publish.                      
    - `1.0.0` with the version number of the package.{% if enterpriseServerVersions contains currentVersion %}
    - `HOSTNAME` with the host name for your {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_server %} instance.{% endif %}
  ``` xml
  <Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

    <PropertyGroup>
      <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
      <TargetFramework>netcoreapp3.0</TargetFramework>
      <PackageId>OctocatApp</PackageId>
      <Version>1.0.0</Version>
      <Authors>Octocat</Authors>
      <Company>GitHub</Company>
      <PackageDescription>This package adds an Octocat!</PackageDescription>
      <RepositoryUrl>https://{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" %}github.com{% else %}HOSTNAME{% endif %}/OWNER/REPOSITORY</RepositoryUrl>
    </PropertyGroup>

  </Project>
  ```
4. Package the project.
  ```shell
  dotnet pack --configuration Release
  ```

5. Publish the package using the `key` you specified in the *nuget.config* file.
  ```shell
  dotnet nuget push "bin/Release/OctocatApp.1.0.0.nupkg" --source "github"
  ```

{% data reusables.package_registry.viewing-packages %}

### Publishing multiple packages to the same repository

To publish multiple packages to the same repository, you can include the same {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} repository URL in the `RepositoryURL` fields in all *.csproj* project files. {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} matches the repository based on that field.

For example, the *OctodogApp* and *OctocatApp* projects will publish to the same repository:

``` xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
    <TargetFramework>netcoreapp3.0</TargetFramework>
    <PackageId>OctodogApp</PackageId>
    <Version>1.0.0</Version>
    <Authors>Octodog</Authors>
    <Company>GitHub</Company>
    <PackageDescription>This package adds an Octodog!</PackageDescription>
    <RepositoryUrl>https://{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" %}github.com{% else %}HOSTNAME{% endif %}/octo-org/octo-cats-and-dogs</RepositoryUrl>
  </PropertyGroup>

</Project>
```

``` xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
    <TargetFramework>netcoreapp3.0</TargetFramework>
    <PackageId>OctocatApp</PackageId>
    <Version>1.0.0</Version>
    <Authors>Octocat</Authors>
    <Company>GitHub</Company>
    <PackageDescription>This package adds an Octocat!</PackageDescription>
    <RepositoryUrl>https://{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" %}github.com{% else %}HOSTNAME{% endif %}/octo-org/octo-cats-and-dogs</RepositoryUrl>
  </PropertyGroup>

</Project>
```

### Installing a package

Using packages from {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} in your project is similar to using packages from *nuget.org*. Add your package dependencies to your *.csproj* file, specifying the package name and version. For more information on using a *.csproj* file in your project, see "[Working with NuGet packages](https://docs.microsoft.com/nuget/consume-packages/overview-and-workflow)" in the Microsoft documentation.

{% data reusables.package_registry.authenticate-step %}

2. To use a package, add `ItemGroup` and configure the `PackageReference` field in the *.csproj* project file, replacing the `OctokittenApp` package with your package dependency and `1.0.0` with the version you want to use:
  ``` xml
  <Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

    <PropertyGroup>
      <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
      <TargetFramework>netcoreapp3.0</TargetFramework>
      <PackageId>OctocatApp</PackageId>
      <Version>1.0.0</Version>
      <Authors>Octocat</Authors>
      <Company>GitHub</Company>
      <PackageDescription>This package adds an Octocat!</PackageDescription>
      <RepositoryUrl>https://{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" %}github.com{% else %}HOSTNAME{% endif %}/OWNER/REPOSITORY</RepositoryUrl>
    </PropertyGroup>

    <ItemGroup>
      <PackageReference Include="OctokittenApp" Version="12.0.2" />
    </ItemGroup>

  </Project>
  ```

3. Install the packages with the `restore` command.
  ```shell
  dotnet restore
  ```

### Further reading

- "{% if currentVersion == "free-pro-team@latest" or currentVersion ver_gt "enterprise-server@3.0" %}[Deleting and restoring a package](/packages/learn-github-packages/deleting-and-restoring-a-package){% elsif currentVersion ver_lt "enterprise-server@3.0" %}[Deleting a package](/packages/learn-github-packages/deleting-a-package){% endif %}."
